Hey guys, welcome back to the class.
We're going to tackle another advanced concept in programming,
called object oriented programming, or as I call it, OOP.
Now, this is one of the concepts that we're
not here to even try to understand in true detail,
we're just going to try to understand what it means
and what it matters in the world of software.
Now, one thing you have to understand is that when you program,
there is what's called a paradigm, and a paradigm,
if you know the actual term or the word,
it just means how you look at something.
If you remember from section one, we talked
about why operating systems were made.
Originally, it wasn't even that "Hey, I want to be able to play Minesweeper,"
it was "Wow, machine code is way too complicated, a human is just
having a really hard time reading this and writing it,
let's make an assembly language that can essentially translate it,
but it's easier for a human to operate."
And that's the basic kind of thinking behind OOP.
So the standard way of developing something is called procedural,
so it's a procedural paradigm, and really all that means is that
you write an application, that application is just a set of instructions.
You tell the browser, or the operating system, "Do this, then do this,
then do this, then do this, then call this, then output this."
That's procedural, it's very literal.
One of the many problems with procedural is that by giving strict instructions
one after the other, after the other, after the other,
what happens when your application has to scale?
If you don't remember, scale just means grow in size almost exponentially.
If I went from 10 users to 1000, that's scaling.
1000 users will have a different set of problems for your application than 10.
So to tackle this problem, they came out with Object Oriented Programming,
which gives you a new paradigm, where instead of thinking of programming
like just flat out instructions, you think of it more like real objects.
So the way you think about this is very similar to how we explained functions.
Remember that? Remember, a function was, you take a bunch of instructions,
and then create a function out of them, then you don't have to rewrite the instructions,
you just have to rewrite the function whenever you need to use that set of instructions.
Well, OOP is just an extension of that even.
It's a collection of functions and data that can be grouped into what's called an "object."
Then, when you are programming and you need
to access some of the information in that object,
what you do is what's called "instantiation," you instantiate the object.
Really all that means is "Hey, now the document I'm writing now
has access to a large chunk of code that is stored somewhere else."
Now, if you know what's wrong with that last sentence I said,
I'm kind of confused why you're taking this course, but good for you.
I said something incorrectly, which was that you instantiate an object.
Actually, you don't instantiate an object, you instantiate a class,
which is another concept you kind of have to understand for OOP.
So the first reason why we have OOP is that you can
save time by grouping bunches of data and functions together.
The second reason is that you can then apply
attributes broadly across several objects or one object.
So let's say we made a class, and that class dictated that
everything in this object was going to output in a certain way,
or it was always going to be in a certain format,
that's essentially what we would use a class for.
The only coherent example I can really think of for you guys, for OOP, is
let's say we have an ecommerce store.
In an ecommerce store, we have lots and lots of products.
Well, to save us time, we would probably
create a class that describes all of the products,
all products have a price, all products have an image, ok,
well, we'd set those rules in the class, and
then we'd create an object for each product.
Let's say we're programming the checkout page,
or the next page, or even the suggestions page.
Then, if we need to show that specific product, and we call the specific object in,
we don't have to do anything to that object, it's prepackaged, ready to go,
and it already has those attributes from the class attributed to it.
You obviously have seen this in social networks,
they'll create an object and that represents a person.
So every time you call an object, it will represent you
and bring all of the things associated with someone's profile,
like an image, like a name, like a phone number, and like
tons and tons of photos of your sister's new baby.
All you need to know past that is that OOP is more scalable than procedural,
and that for the most part, for the longest time, people thought that
OOP was just superior to procedural, but procedural is making a comeback.
If that was all gibberish to you, it was all gibberish to me
...OOPS.
All right, so that's a fancy-fancy term you might hear,
and if you're programming in things like PHP,
you're going to run into it pretty much immediately.
So just think of it like that - it's a way that saves
you time by basically making mega-functions
and that you can call them in later to save you time programming.
Yatta, yatta, yatta, yatta, yatta.